---
tags: encounter, Underdark, needs_work
aliases:
---

Here lies a list of funny, interesting, or otherwise encounters set in the [[Underdark]].

# The Shallows' Caves
- **death**
- **disease**
- **poison**
- An insidious 11th level human wizard and their trusty [Blood Golem](https://www.5esrd.com/database/creature/blood-golem/)
- A colony of [Blood Men](https://www.5esrd.com/database/creature/bloodman/)
- A colony of [Troglodyte]()
- A [Far Wanderer](https://www.5esrd.com/database/creature/far-wanderer/) leads the party to safety
- The party emerges into a spacious cavern, its walls glistening with gems. Inside a lone, wounded Svirfnebli prospector huddles tight to a sack of precious stones, refusing to part with them under any circumstance.
- The party enter into a wide-spanning cavern filled with stalagmites and stalactites, water drips in the distance. A patrol of Drow moves stealthily in the darkness, if they detect the party they engage at range, with the intent to incapacitate and enslave the party.
- The party encounters a deep pixie, an uncommon race of pixie that makes their home in the bowels of the Underdark. The pixie looks similar to a regular pixie, though the bright blue colouring and large, completely black eyes are still quite distinctive. The stat block for a deep pixie is identical to that of a regular pixie with the addition of darkvision out to 60 feet and the ability to speak undercommon. The deep pixie will vanish immediately upon being seen and will spend the next few hours pulling pranks and gently harassing the party. If they put up with it good-naturedly, the pixie will eventually feel guilty and stop. The pixie will then reveal themselves once more and investigate the good intentions of the party before inviting the party back to a mushroom town of other deep pixies. There the pixies will ensure proper recompense for whatever trouble the original pixie caused. After a time of rest spent there, the deep pixies send the party on its way with a full stock of supplies and knowledge of some of the local cavern shortcuts.
- Cloakers in equal number to the party ambush the party. Any cloaker that misses its first attack leaves the battle and hides out of reach. Any cloaker below half HP or forcibly detached will disengage and fly away to hide.
- The PCs stumble upon a small village that stretches along a ravine. If they inquire with the locals, they will find that the unfathomably dark chasm leads to a place they call "The Underdepths". The locals have to fight back horrible abyssal beasts every night, and each time it only gets worse.
- The party hears the clinking of hammers and pickaxes. Down a narrow corridor sits (d6-20, depends on level) undead duergar or dwarves. These poor souls have been cursed to mine the same section of rock for eternity. They look exhausted and will not interact with the party. If any of them are forcibly stopped from mining, they will attack the party. Any dwarves or duergar killed in this encounter will return in 24 hours and start mining. These creatures will appear to have made progress in the cavern over time but they have actually mined nothing.
- The party enters a room and each of the four walls is painted with a mural representing a different season. In the middle of the room is a small patch of dirt. Buried in the dirt is a seed (don't tell them this part unless they dig it up). The players need to replicate each season in order. How they do so is pretty open ended, so there's no "You didn't do the exact thing, so it doesn't work." nonsense. As they correctly match each season, the paintings on the wall will light up and the room will physically change to match. The order for the correct solution is this: Spring: Rain. Party needs to pour some kind of liquid in the dirt. Water from canteens, prestidigitation, even taking a leak in the dirt would work. When completed, a small sprout will grow up from the dirt. Summer: Sun. Part needs to make any kind of light or heat. A daylight spell, firebolt (not cast directly at the plant), or lighting a torch would work. When completed, the sprout will grow into a miniature tree. Autumn: Wind. Party has to make some sort of air flow, even blowing at the tree would be acceptable. When completed, the leaves blow off the tree and it is bare. Winter: Snow. Any kind of cold magic will work, or any way to reduce the temperature around the tree. When completed a small cloud will form over the tree and snow and ice will cover it. After that, the doors to the room open, allowing the party to progress.
- Re Shortcuts: The party enters what appears to be an underground forest, where the canopy was so thick that it supported layers of sediment and eventually sunk beneath the surface of the world. Sickly dryads and militaristic pixie soldiers flit through the forest, defending their sunken forest against all comers.
- The party chances upon a town built around an underground geyser that must erupt hundreds of miles overhead on the surface. Copper pipes run hot water and machinery is powered by the regular jets of water of the geyser-column. The town is populated by a variety of neutral Underdark denizens, from escaped Drow slaves and Svirfneblin tradesmen to a community of blind Merfolk who live in the town's hot springs.
- The tunnel the party is travelling down is lined with veins of gold, but no apparent mining operations have taken place. The bodies of many dwarves and kobolds are scattered about. Eventually, the party comes across the remains of an Ancient Red Dragon, half-sunken into a pool of gold ore. Without mining equipment, very little of the dragon's metallurgical horde can be taken.
- The party happens upon a huge cavern that hosts the butchered remains of a battle between Duergar and Drow, a goldmine of non-magic weapons and armor are to be found but the party would need to contend with 1d6+2 Ghouls + 1d4-1 Ghasts (Add an extra dice to each per adventure tier) that are currently occupied with engorging the cadavers but will turn their attention to the party if they attempt to loot the corpses.
- A skinny man with very little clothes on runs past the party, murmuring words about some sort of quest or unfinished duties, even if the party kills him he will run past the group again the next day. He does not appear the day after.
- The tunnel opens into a wide chamber filled with giant mushroom stalks planted in neat rows. The mushroom crops are tended by half a dozen elves who have been blinded and had their tongues cut out. They walk along the rows, feeling the stalks and plucking off insects.
- A giant spider captured a roving group of bandits and wrapped them up for later. One of the bound bandits killed the spider with a lucky dagger hit, but they are still all bound up and need rescue. If rescued, the bandits are grateful... but they intend to steal their rescuers' supplies and leg it at the first opportunity.
- The party encounters a caravan of Svirfnebli gemstone traders trekking the gauntlet between two Underdark settlements, they are willing to sell their wares to the party but are unwilling to buy anything except for gemstones at under-market value. The caravan is heavily guarded in order to discourage bandits from attacking this most juicy target
- [Megadungeon](https://anyflip.com/vbea/zsbi)
# Kings Highway / Deep
- A group of Drow transporting goods and or prisioners using a giant fucking beetle
- A group of Drow on a hunt with some beasties
- A group of Mind Flayers transporting a [Brain Gorger](https://www.5esrd.com/database/creature/brain-gorger/)
- A clan of [Caulborn](https://www.5esrd.com/database/creature/caulborn/), gathering for feast of mushroom and wormrock

